.Dd $Mdocdate: December 16 2024 $
.Dt MINES-TUI 6
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mines-tui
.Nd a terminal-based Minesweeper like game
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm mines-tui
is a text-based implementation of the classic Minesweeper game for the terminal. 
The objective is to uncover all tiles that do not contain mines while avoiding 
those that do. Correctly marking suspected mines with flags helps avoid 
accidental openings.

When you uncover a tile, one of the following happens:
.Bl -bullet -offset indent
.It
If the tile contains a mine, the game ends.
.It
If the tile is empty and adjacent to mines, a number appears indicating how many 
mines are nearby (1-8).
.It
If the tile is empty and has no neighboring mines, nearby tiles are automatically 
revealed.
.El

To win, all non-mine tiles must be opened while placing flags on every mine.

The game supports multiple users, with individual save files stored in
.Pa /var/www/games/mines/save .
The user's name is normally the same as the $USER environment variable.

.Sh CONTROLS
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Ic hjkl ,  Ic ←↓↑→
Move the cursor.
.It Ic s
Open the current tile.
.It Ic f
Place or remove a flag on the current tile.
.It Ic e
Emphasize neighbouring tiles.
.It Ic b
Display high scores for the current game.
.It Ic m
Open the game manual (man page).
.It Ic q
Quit the game.
.El

.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /var/www/games/mines/save -compact
.It Pa /var/www/games/mines/save
Individual save files for each user.
.El

.Sh BUGS
There are a few known issues with
.Nm mines-tui :
.Bl -bullet -offset indent
.It
Highlighting may not work correctly when running the game inside a
.Tn tmux
session.
.It
If you encounter Unicode-related errors, ensure that your locale is set correctly.
This can be done by setting the following environment variables:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
export LANG=en_US.UTF-8
export LC_ALL=en_US.UTF-8
.Ed
.It
If you find any other bugs or have feature requests, please open an issue at
.Lk https://github.com/Judro/mines .
.El

.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
The game
.Nm mines-tui
was developed by
.An Julius Drodofsky 
.Aq julius@drodofsky.xyz .

